readme.md, before:

# Mandelbrot Shootout

Just a quickie Mandelbrot Set fractal demo in several languages, to exercise some specific performance characteristics of their object implementations.

## What it does

Each version of the program calculates the Mandelbrot set escape iteration count at a low resolution, with one million maximum iterations per pixel. ASCII art is output showing the pretty fractal shape, and a count of execution time in milliseconds.

A bare-bones `Complex` object class is used to implement the math, representing the real and imaginary components as `x` and `y` properties, and providing accumulator-style methods to add and multiply, as well as the magnitude/abs-value function needed by the fractal.

Most of the runtime is in the iteration loop for the points inside the set.

## C

As a theoretically superfast baseline, C code is included using structs, with variants using heap allocation, stack allocation, and value objects. All run about the same when compiled at `-O3` in `clang`, clocking in just under 1250ms.

## JavaScript

JavaScript does pretty well here running in `node`, optimizing the accesses to the `Complex` object type nicely.

On my machine this clocks in around 1250ms, about the same as the statically optimized C code.

## Java

Java performs similarly to C and JavaScript here, but the JIT compiler probably has less work to do to get there!

Clocks in around 1250ms. I'd initially seen a wider range in performance based on use of the `final` keyword but can no longer reproduce it, it may have been background activity on the machine.

## PHP

Alas, this is a worst case for PHP 7.3; clocks in around 70 seconds, 56x slower than node.

PHP 8's JIT compiler, once enabled, can knock it down to about 40 seconds, a mere 32x slower than node. ;)

## Python

Python (in its traditional CPython form, tested 3.8.5) fares even worse, at about 8 minutes 45 seconds. This is about 7.5x slower than PHP 7.3 and a blazing 420x slower than C, JS, and Java.

Other JIT-optimized implementations of Python may fare better.

Commit message:

Note graalpython does ok
graalpython does MUCH better than cpython, but still has a 2-3x
overhead over the most well optimized implementations. Pretty good
though!

readme.md, after:

# Mandelbrot Shootout

Just a quickie Mandelbrot Set fractal demo in several languages, to exercise some specific performance characteristics of their object implementations.

## What it does

Each version of the program calculates the Mandelbrot set escape iteration count at a low resolution, with one million maximum iterations per pixel. ASCII art is output showing the pretty fractal shape, and a count of execution time in milliseconds.

A bare-bones `Complex` object class is used to implement the math, representing the real and imaginary components as `x` and `y` properties, and providing accumulator-style methods to add and multiply, as well as the magnitude/abs-value function needed by the fractal.

Most of the runtime is in the iteration loop for the points inside the set.

## C

As a theoretically superfast baseline, C code is included using structs, with variants using heap allocation, stack allocation, and value objects. All run about the same when compiled at `-O3` in `clang`, clocking in just under 1250ms.

## JavaScript

JavaScript does pretty well here running in `node`, optimizing the accesses to the `Complex` object type nicely.

On my machine this clocks in around 1250ms, about the same as the statically optimized C code.

## Java

Java performs similarly to C and JavaScript here, but the JIT compiler probably has less work to do to get there!

Clocks in around 1250ms. I'd initially seen a wider range in performance based on use of the `final` keyword but can no longer reproduce it, it may have been background activity on the machine.

## PHP

Alas, this is a worst case for PHP 7.3; clocks in around 70 seconds, 56x slower than node.

PHP 8's JIT compiler, once enabled, can knock it down to about 40 seconds, a mere 32x slower than node. ;)

## Python

Python (in its traditional CPython form, tested 3.8.5) fares even worse, at about 8 minutes 45 seconds. This is about 7.5x slower than PHP 7.3 and a blazing 420x slower than C, JS, and Java.

JIT-optimized implementations of Python fare better: GraalPython gives me about 3600ms, with a visible warm-up window near the start. This is only about 3x slower than the most optimized other language implementations.
